Fareed is one of the most unique individuals I have met during my career at JPMorgan. I have known Fareed for a little over 3 years as a manager within Finance and Business Management in the Corporate & Investment Bank. I manage the reporting and analytics for our investment banking business at the industry level. To this end Fareed supports six global industries producing financial metrics, business reviews and ad-hoc support to business heads for those industries. As a finance professional Fareed produces excellent work helping to provide business heads with the reporting and analytics needed to make business decisions. Fareed has displayed great potential, leadership and most importantly a human touch as an associate.

Fareed’s potential is evident from his engineering background. In our group we have many ambiguous requests that will come from senior management or bankers. Often, senior management will ask for non-standard analysis of competitors or clients. As you can imagine this requires gathering data from many sources to build a model capable of translating that data into actionable insights. To many analysts and associates this can be an arduous task. Linking our own internal data in the Investment Bank to other parts of the Firm and to third-part sources is a difficult task considering the many ways a client’s name can be spelled in each system (Apple Inc, Apple Incorporated, Apple, etc). Fareed took this challenge of building a global model by first defining the problem – global competitive analysis of our clients broken out by industry and financial metrics. Then he identified the sources of data both internally and externally along with the required work necessary to scrub the data for data quality. Finally he sketched out what he final model and summary pages would look like to display the information for senior management. It was apparent how much potential he had leveraging his analytical and engineering background to solve complex problems.

As a leader on the team,  Fareed has consistently produced accurately timely work and quickly became a subject matter expert in Global Corporate Bank (GCB) reporting. Understanding that he had become the expert on GCB by answering the questions of bankers, business managers and senior management Fareed realized there was a gap within the team of knowledge of the GCB business. To this end Fareed took the initiative to start training junior employees on the business including: creating informative decks, one-on-one training, and introducing them to the business managers who work for the bankers. This demonstration of leadership has empowered our employees to work collaboratively with the business managers and bankers on all matters of GCB eliminating any knowledge loss within the team.

Finally, I believe Fareed’s strongest trait is his ability to connect with people on an interpersonal level. In our group we have to work with many levels of the organization including managing directors, business managers, bankers, and many functional areas. His skill in connecting to others allows for a collaborative work environment. One example has been in his work with the business managers he supports. Business managers are often endlessly stressed with multiple competing requests from bankers and business heads. Often times they turn to Fareed with very obscure requests from business heads. Fareed helps put them at ease by communicating directly with them (phone or face to face, no emails) to identify deliverables. Then after completing the deliverables Fareed will follow up with the business manager to go over the steps taken to complete the request and any insights he may have gained from the analysis.

On a more personal note, Fareed disclosed to me his DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) status this year. And with it the shame he felt from not being able to live up to his potential and make a bigger impact for his family and community for fear of being deported. He shared with me how, despite being valedictorian he chose to go to a local college instead of a more prestigious school. Even after graduation there was no clear path for him given he was still undocumented. It wasn’t until the executive order by the Obama administration did he at least finally have some relief and was able to tap into some of that potential to start his career at JPMorgan. As great as Fareed has been at JPMorgan, I do not think this is where he needs to be. He has sacrificed so much (going to a local school, unpaid internship, etc.) all of which has held him back to making a greater impact to his community. I can easily picture Fareed consulting for a company and making significant positive impact and building great relationships. His entrepreneurially spirit needs to be nurtured for him to reach his full potential and I enthusiastically recommend him for this scholarship. Of all the people I’ve worked with it would bring me great joy for him to receive this award.

